Question 1:

What is it about the modern Linux architecture/structure that is more similar to a micro
kernel than to the original, traditional monolithic kernel?

	1. Microkernels allow non-kernal, user features such as device drivers, file servers and UNIX server.
	   This is achieved on Linux through modules unlike on the traditional monolithic kernel.
	2. Both micro-kernel and Linux allow for the ability to run systems calls in user space through
	   system call interfaces.
	3. Both Linux and Micro-kernels are made for multitasking. As micro-kernel allows for more than one
	   process to run simultaneously, each on a different processor, same as Linux.
	4. Scaling, both Linux and micro-kernels allow vendors to offer a range of products based on the
	   number of processors configured in the system.
	5. Linux is extremely modular, so it's easier to scale than the original monolithic architecture,
	   something it shares with the micro-kernel architecture.

Question 2:

The modern Linux architecture provides Linux some benefits typically associated micro-kernels.
Breifly, what are some benefits?
 
	1. Security: both Linux and micro-kernels's modular architecture allow Linux systems
	   to isolate it's modules, reducing the damage of attacks on the system.
	2. Incremental Growth: Performance of a Linux system can be enchanged by adding additional
	   processors.
	3. Scaling: Vendors offer a range of products based on the number of processors
	   configured on the system

Question 6:

	1. kill %4 (terminate foreground)
	2. kill %1 (terminate stopped)

Question 8:

	1. kill -SIGINT PID(P1 Background)
	2. kill -SIGINT PID(P1 Foreground)

Question 9:

	Sigint is a signal sent to a process as an interupt, requesting it to clear up it's process/operation
	and terminate itself.

	Sigkill is like a force-terminate signal, which is sent to a process to forcefully terminate it
	ignoring the usual pre-termination process of clearing up itself.

	Sigkill is like using Task manager to forcefully destroy a process that isn't closing itself or is not
	responding whereas Sigint allows the process to clean up and terminate itself.

Question 10:

	1. kill -SIGSTOP PID
	2. kill -SIGCONT PID
	3. kill -SIGSTOP PID
	4. kill -SIGCONT PID
	5. kill -SIGTERM PID
